now Israel's Army has issued new orders
to further displace people in southern
Gaza an area that had previously been
declared safe Israel says that it's
dividing the entire Gaza Strip into
zones to let people know which areas
they should be leaving it's now saying
that these districts here the Yellow
Part here on the map these districts of
Han yunes the largest city in the now in
the South remember will become areas
with quote heavy fighting Israel is
ordering people to move to three camps
in these areas in those directions now
the wording of the displacement leaflets
because Israel has once again been
dropping leaflets over those areas that
wording suggests that the survival of
Palestinians is now after they've been
warned by Israel their own
responsibility let's take a look at the
situation on the ground after Israel
isolated Gaza City in the north the
largest city in the Gaza Strip its
troops have now been pushing South that
means south of that white line Wadi Gaza
there uh uh along the strip's main
archery which is we've been telling you
uh saladine road that is the main axis
that goes north to south along with the
coastal road but we'll get back to that
we have reports that there's been
fighting all the way down here in alcara
so it's just a few kilometers away from
the heart of hanun while Israel is
telling Palestinians in hanun to move
further south towards Rafa now that's
along the border you see it there along
the border with Egypt Israel has also
been Shing the main roads leading to
that area one of the few remaining
options to travel between gaza's north
and south is on the coastal road so back
to that Al rashed road but Israeli
military vessels along the Mediterranean
Coastline have a direct line of fire
over this road and they have been
shooting at Vehicles traveling along Al
rashed Road the coastal Road all right
let's talk about all of this let's bring
in Omar Shore thank you very much for
being with us uh Omar is Professor of
security and Military studies at the
Doha Institute for Graduate Studies he's
been breaking down the military aspects
of all of this over the last few days as
you look at this Omar and as you take in
all these little bits of information the
zones where Israel is operating the
information or rather the the the
warnings that Israel has been sending to
Palestinians what is the bigger picture
that is building for you well the the
bigger picture uh well we go strategic
operational and tactical okay strategic
uh basically they are trying to send a
message uh probably to the US primarily
that they are trying to reduce civilian
casualties so allow us to continue that
operation for claim they claimed I think
two months but I think it will be a lot
longer than that if that's the pace and
I'll tell you why that's as far as
you're concerned messaging and signaling
that is also for the International
Community specifically for the US when
they're dropping those leaflets saying
leave these areas because we're going to
start shelling here they're talking to
Palestinians but they're also talking to
the US primarily to the US because I
don't think it's going to work uh it's
we are talking talking about a
population density in in the South that
almost doubled it was before the war it
was 6,500 per square kilometer now we're
talking about U almost over 13,000 per
square kilometer so anywhere you're
going to bomb you're probably going to
uh hit significant um uh numbers of of
of Palestinian civilians we should
remind our viewers this length here it's
40 kilm just because we also we always
say how how densely populated this is
this is 10 40 km by 10 yeah so the whole
Gaza Strip is the 370 Square kilomet so
it's the side of the city of har in
Ukraine so it's it's not it's not a big
uh place at all so so strategically I
think it's it's uh we are trying to
reduce civilian casualties so don't
pressure us diplomatically to end or
have a pause or have a ceasefire let us
continue this operationally you know the
the Hamas in so they want to go approach
the South fair enough but in the north I
don't think Hamas command and control
structure is destroyed uh we saw U uh
the release of hostages from the north
as well as from the south we also saw it
seems to me that the ground lines of
communications were not completely
destroyed and just today that you mean
the the ability for Hamas to move from
the southern part of the strip to the
northern part back and forth yeah yeah
absolutely to to move not just to move
in in terms of um men or Fighters or
hostages but also weapons ammunition uh
food fuel Etc so but also the the
interesting bit in this is the on the
technical level today I I saw now an
announcement that there was has been an
attack again in in B hanon so we're
talking about you know the northern back
in the northern part of the strip back
in the Northern and and previously there
was an attack in Bia so both the North
Center the the far North Center and the
far north is uh there are operations
there which tells me that it does not um
the the Hamas units there were not
really destroyed but the interesting bit
there is the the at least for according
to the Kasam battalions um I don't know
why they why they translate always to
brigades but they said which is
battalions and and their size even
smaller than battalions but also the the
they claim that they used a tpg uh U
shell a rocket tpg is a thermobaric so
this is incendiary rockets and wa you're
losing me so okay so so they have the
alasin 105 uh this is a a modification
of a uh of an RPG 29 M um it's uh it's
two tendem so if you have a tank with a
reactive armor it deals with the
reactive armor it explodes on two levels
so first uh the the smaller round
destroys the uh the reactive armor the
second bigger round the the the one5
destroys the uh the armor of the actual
tank so the tanks usually have a
reactive armor to to stop that so if
they're using it now so it means it it
tells me that they have more
ammunition more qualitative ammunition
that they did they did not use yet uh so
now we're at a thermobaric uh ammunition
level uh in the north what is the sou it
tells me that they they still have more
ammunition uh in terms of and
qualitative ones uh so the israelies did
not complete their mission in the north
and I don't think they are closer
anywhere to destroying destruction of uh
kasan battalions in the north uh which
says that you know if they did not do
this in the north 58 days later uh after
1,00 air strikes so you can imagine the
amount of air sores for 1,200 air
strikes and hundreds of tons of uh
explosive that were you know was on Gaza
and with this level of Destruction and
there's still fighting in the far north
where they initially the main axis of
Advance was was there um
so if if that's the case so what about
the south which is going to be it's
bigger as you see geographically yeah
probably more dense in terms of not
probably for sure more dense in terms of
the population well because by now a
large part of the population that was in
the north has moved to the South so to
the UN one 1,700,000 idps okay all right
we're going to have to end it here
because we have a lot to get in the show
this hour but thank you very much and we
hear what you're saying both on a
strategic level in terms of the
messaging uh when the Israelis are are
telling palestin to leave these yellow
areas here that it's aimed you say not
just at Palestinians but also at the
International Community specifically
their back Earth the US also what you're
saying that Hamas still very much active
and able to bring weapons into the
Battle Zone in the north of the Gaza
Strip thank you very much for making
sense of this map telling us what's
happening right now Omar sh will'll talk
to you again thank you very much